## Data Specifications

The specifications for the data used in nucleotid.es are described here. The
data files provided in this repository are all the inputs used to run the
nucleotid.es benchmarks. New inputs can be added by creating a pull request
with changes to a specific data file. Any changes should be validated by
following the instructions in the [README.mkd][readme].

## data/data.yml

This file contains the list of all data currently used for benchmarking in
nucleotid.es. This is a list of dictionaries, where each dictionary entry
corresponds to a loose grouping of a similar kind of data. Examples of similar
data might be from the same sequencing run or same collection site.

  * **description**: *Required* a text summary of this data, try to include as
    much information as possible about how the library was constructed and
    sequenced. Any useful information about the types of organisms sequenced
    may also be included.

  * **data_type_id**: *Required* the type of this data this is. This
    corresponds to the ID from the vocabulary described in the
    [data/data_types.mkd][data] file.

  * **data_id**: *Required* A unique integer ID for this datum.

  * **entries**: *Required* a list of benchmarks provided by this data.
    Replicates may be different organisms, metagenomes, and so forth. Each
    should correspond to one individual benchmarking example. Each entry in
    this list is a dictionary with the following fields:

    * **read_number**: *Required* the number of reads in each file.

    * **entry_id**: *Required* an integer ID for this entry. This should be
      unique within each dataset.

    * **replicates**: *Required* a list of files containing this data. There
      may be replicates of each benchmarking entry generated, for instance by
      subsampling reads. Each entry in this list contains the following fields:

        * **url**: *Required* the S3 url of the file. This should begin with
          's3://'.

        * **md5sum**: *Required* the md5 digest of the data file.

## data/data_type.yml

This file contains a limited vocabulary list data types used for benchmarking
in nucleotid.es. This file is a list of dictionaries, where each entry
corresponds to the metadata for the given data type.

  * **id**: *Required* The unique integer identifier of this data type.

  * **description**: *Required* A text description of this type of data.

## data/benchmark_type.yml

This file contains a list of the benchmarks types in nucleotid.es. This file is
a list of dictionaries, where each entry corresponds to the metadata about a
benchmark type.

  * **id**: *Required* A four digit string identifier for this benchmark type.

  * **description**: *Required* A text description of this benchmark type.

  * **associated_data_ids**: *Required* A list of data IDs that can be used for
    this benchmark type.

  * **image**: *Required* A dockerhub image that can be used to evaluate the
    results of this benchmark.


## data/image.yml

This file lists the Docker images benchmarked in nucleotid.es. This file is a
list of dictionaries, where each entry corresponds to a single image. These
images should all be [bioboxes][]

  * **image**: *Required* the Dockerhub repository in the form of
    username/repository. E.g. nucleotides/velvet.

  * **procs** *Required* A list of arguments defining different ways in which
    the software can be run.

  * **benchmark_types** *Required* A list of benchmark type IDs for which this
    image should be tested on. The current list of benchmark IDs can be found
    in [data/benchmark.mkd][bench]

[bench]: https://github.com/nucleotides/nucleotides-data/blob/master/data/benchmark.mkd
[data]: https://github.com/nucleotides/nucleotides-data/blob/master/data/data_types.mkd
[readme]: https://github.com/nucleotides/nucleotides-data/blob/master/README.mkd
[bioboxes]: http://bioboxes.org/available-bioboxes/
